# Agreement terms and conditions for use of Digipost for private individuals

The terms below cover the rights and obligations that you have as a user of
Digipost, and by accepting the terms you also give permission to process
personal data about yourself. You must therefore review the terms and
conditions carefully and assess whether you accept these before you start
using Digipost. If you have any questions about the terms and conditions, we
recommend that you contact Norway Post by email at
[kundeservice@digipost.no](mailto:kundeservice@digipost.no), and
await Norway Post’s response before accepting the terms and conditions and
using Digipost.

Below are the terms and conditions governing the use of Digipost (“Terms”), a
service provided by Posten Norge AS (“Norway Post”), co. reg. no. 984 661 185.
The Terms are regarded as read, understood and accepted by the natural person
who will use Digipost (“the User”) by the User checking “I accept the Digipost
terms”, clicking on the button marked “Register me for Digipost” and using
Digipost. The User is advised to print out the Terms and keep them, together
with acknowledgement of acceptance of the service.
The User must be at least 15 years of age to be able to register and use
Digipost.

The Terms apply to the User’s use of Digipost for purely personal or other
private purposes. The Customer Terms for Digipost – Company apply to public
authorities, companies (including sole proprietorships), organisations and
others who use Digipost for purposes other than purely personal or other
private purposes.

## **1** ABOUT DIGIPOST

Digipost provides access to send, receive, sign and archive information and
data (“Messages”) in electronic form from registered users of the service
(such as public authorities, companies, organisations and private
individuals). The following information will be collected during the
registration process before the User can access Digipost:

- Name
- Personal identification number
- Address
- Email address
- Mobile phone number

Messages via Digipost are based on secure identification of senders,
recipients and their physical postal addresses. It is therefore necessary for
the User to provide the correct information in order to fulfil the contractual
relationship under these Terms.

Digipost also includes a number of optional additional services. These Terms
also apply to the supplementary services unless stated otherwise in the
contractual basis for the supplementary service in question.

## **2** PRICE AND INVOICING TERMS

Creating an account in Digipost and receiving and archiving letters and
receipts are all free. The User has a specific amount of free storage space
and the option to send a specific number of letters free of charge each month.
Information on the available storage space and number of letters can be found
at www.digipost.no.

If the User makes use of payable services in Digipost, payment must be made
using a debit card or credit card, including MasterCard and Visa, through a
secure payment service from a trusted third party. The user must enter the
required card information. This information will be stored by a trusted third
party in order to facilitate future payments.

By entering valid card information, the User accepts that Digipost can debit
the debit card/account for all purchases in Digipost, and that the amount for
subscription services can be deducted automatically when due. The User is
obliged to ensure that the card entered is valid, that they can use it and
that it has sufficient coverage for future due payments. The amount charged to
the account will follow the price list in force at any time, with the addition
of statutory VAT at the time of payment.

## **3** SERVICE LEVEL

Digipost aims to be available to customers and users 24 hours a day, 7 days a
week. Norway Post may suspend service in the event of a technical fault,
software upgrade, system maintenance, changes, power failure or similar
conditions.

If Norway Post is aware that the service will be suspended, Norway Post shall
notify the User of this within a reasonable period of time before the service
is cancelled. Norway Post shall notify the User as soon as possible if the
suspension of the service is not known in advance.

Norway Post is not obliged to notify the User if suspension of the service is
assumed not to be of significance to the User.

Notification may be in the form of a message sent to the email address
provided by the User when registering, to the User’s Digipost mailbox and/or
at www.digipost.no.

Messages through Digipost will be processed on an ongoing basis and the
messages will be available to the recipient in accordance with the agreement
with the sender, normally immediately after sending. However, the send time
may vary, and the send time may increase when there are many simultaneous
tasks or large tasks in progress.

## **4** USE OF DIGIPOST

### **4.1** General

The User shall only use Digipost as described in these Terms.

The User can log on to Digipost with ID-porten or other similar security
instrument approved by Norway Post. The password/code is the User’s signature
when using Digipost. It will be assumed that it is the User who has made use
of the service in question on Digipost where the correct login is used. The
same applies if the User has granted others access through the sharing
functionality in Digipost.

The security solutions are protected by a password/code which is personal. The
User is solely responsible for its use. It is therefore extremely important
that a unique password/code is used which are never given to others or written
down so that unauthorised persons can pretend to be the User with regard to
Digipost. The password should be changed in accordance with the specifications
stated as requirements for the security solution at any given time.

The User is solely responsible for losses resulting from the User giving their
Digipost information to others or that others have such access as a result of
circumstances on the User's side.

The User undertakes not to hack illegally into data resources to which
Digipost grants access or otherwise use unlawful means to acquire data or
information. The same applies to other attempts to breach security or
unnecessarily disrupt other parties’ use of Digipost. If the User
inadvertently gains access to other users’ or customers’ data in Digipost, the
User shall notify Norway Post in writing of the matter immediately and delete
any data received by the User.

Norway Post does not monitor the content of messages that are sent to,
received, signed or archived in the Digipost mailbox, and is thus not
responsible for the content and form of the messages, as well as the content
of any links. Nor is Norway Post responsible for errors, shortcomings and/or
undesirable properties of relevant data, file attachments, links, etc.

All necessary personal data that Norway Post has about the User must be
updated at all times. The User shall personally provide notification of any
changes to email addresses, and other conditions of significance to the use of
Digipost by logging in to www.digipost.no and changing this under personal
settings.

If the User discovers errors, shortcomings, irregularities or other conditions
that may be significant for Norway Post as a supplier of Digipost, the User
shall notify Norway Post about this.

### **4.2** Sending messages

The User undertakes to identify or label messages in the manner required by
Norway Post at any time.

The User must have registered as a business customer in order to use Digipost
for the sending of invoices and for marketing enquiries in business
activities, etc.

### **4.3** Receipt and archiving of messages

The User grants permission for all potential senders, including public
authorities, companies, organisations and private individuals, to use Digipost
for communication with the User. When the User has been registered, all
senders may send the User digital mail, including invoices, health
documentation, insurance agreements, notifications and letters from public
entities, regardless of prior consents to electronic communication. Senders
may choose only to send the User letters in Digipost. This means that the User
will not receive the letters in their physical mailbox/postbox. The User
understands and accepts that the sender’s use of Digipost replaces equivalent
communication via regular post to the User’s physical mailbox/postbox.

The User will receive notification (by email/SMS/push, depending on what is
offered by Digipost), about messages received at the Customer’s Digipost
mailbox. The User can change the settings for receiving such notifications in
their personal profile. In any event, the User is personally responsible for
maintaining an ongoing overview of new messages received in Digipost.

The User has the option of archiving messages in Digipost. Messages that the
User deletes in Digipost will be unavailable to the User immediately after the
User has confirmed that the message is to be deleted.

Senders of messages in Digipost can request confirmation that the message has
been opened by the User. Such messages will be marked with information for the
User to indicate that the sender will be notified when the message is opened.

All messages received in Digipost are stored on secure servers.

Digipost gives the User the opportunity to create a personal, secure digital
archive where the User can transfer and store digital files to secure servers,
and which gives the User access to the files via the Internet. Digipost offers
a given amount of storage space free of charge. The amount of free storage
space available at any time is specified at digipost.no.

## **5** NORWAY POST’S OBLIGATIONS AND RIGHTS

Norway Post is responsible for carrying out the tasks that the User initiates
pursuant to these Terms.

Norway Post is not liable for errors, shortcomings or disruptions related to
equipment, software, access to or transmission via the Internet or the User’s
selected authentication solution (BankID issued by any bank in Norway, or any
other corresponding security instrument approved by Norway Post).

Norway Post does not monitor the content of messages that are sent to,
received or archived in the Digipost mailbox, and is thus not responsible for
the content and form of the messages, as well as the content of any links.

If Norway Post becomes aware that messages in Digipost have been sent
incorrectly or are contrary to legislation, regulations or official decisions,
or otherwise involve abuse of Digipost in the opinion of Norway Post, Norway
Post may withdraw these. The above also applies to messages that have already
been delivered to the User’s Digipost mailbox. Norway Post will inform the
User if such withdrawal takes place.

Norway Post has the opportunity to send messages to the User regarding new
opportunities, operational information and other information related to
Digipost.

## **6** CHANGES

Norway Post may change the Terms, including prices, with one month’s written
notice to the User. Notification will be sent to the email address provided by
the User, or to the User’s Digipost mailbox. The same applies if Norway Post
makes significant restrictions in Digipost’s area of use. Changes may
nevertheless be made without prior notice if the change, in the opinion of
Norway Post, is of benefit to the User, or is of minor significance. Norway
Post shall nevertheless inform the User of the change by sending a message to
the User’s registered email address, Digipost mailbox and/or the next time the
User logs in to Digipost unless the change is clearly insignificant.

If the area of use in Digipost is expanded to include new functions, the User
may have to confirm these separately. Information about new functions will be
updated on an ongoing basis at www.digipost.no and/or by sending a message to
the User’s Digipost mailbox.

## **7** DUTY OF SECRECY

Norway Post and anyone who carries out work or services for Norway Post have a
duty of secrecy concerning all information that they may become aware of about
the User’s use of Digipost.

Norway Post is obliged to take whatever precautions are necessary to ensure
that material or information are not used for purposes other than the
implementation of the agreement covered by these Terms or made known to others
in violation of this paragraph. Employees or others who resign from their
positions with Norway Post remain bound by this confidentiality clause on
matters mentioned above also following their resignation.

The duty of confidentiality also applies after the contractual relationship
under these Terms has ceased.

The duty of confidentiality does not apply when there is an obligation to
provide material or information pursuant to law, regulation or official
decision.

## **8** PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA

Norway Post will process personal data as a result of the User using Digipost
and will comply with the provisions of the applicable personal data
regulations in all processing of personal data. The Data Owner is Norway Post
AS, PO Box 1500 Sentrum, 0001 Oslo.

The processing of personal data and the User’s rights are described in more
detail in the privacy policy.

## **9** DIGIPOST ERRORS OR DEFECTS

### **9.1** Complaints

The User must inform Norway Post of errors or shortcomings in Digipost that
result in the User not being provided with the services to which the User is
entitled under these Terms. Notification must be provided within a reasonable
time and no later than 10 days after the User discovered or ought to have
discovered the defect or shortcoming.

### **9.2** Corrective measures

Norway Post must implement measures to correct the error or shortcoming as
soon as possible after having been made aware of such an error or shortcoming
in Digipost.

### **9.3** Price reduction

If there are errors or shortcomings in Digipost in the User’s use for which
Norway Post is responsible under these Terms and which result in the User not
being provided with the services to which the User is entitled, the User may
claim a price reduction insofar as the User has paid for the use of
Digipost/services in Digipost. In such cases, the User will normally be
credited a proportional price reduction for the service in question. Where the
relevant service has been absent in its entirety and this is due to
circumstances for which Digipost is responsible, the User will be entitled to
a refund of the price paid for the service. If the User has been prevented
from sending out messages, the User will not be entitled to a price reduction
for these messages, but may be entitled to compensation if the conditions for
this are met.

### **9.4** Compensation Limitation of liability

Norway Post is liable for direct losses incurred by the User in the event of
errors or shortcomings in Digipost for which Norway Post is responsible under
these Terms, and which result in the User not being provided with the services
to which the User is entitled under these Terms, if this is due to gross
negligence on the part of Norway Post. Direct loss is understood to mean
necessary and documented additional costs incurred by the User as a result of
the error or shortcoming.

In no way is Norway Post liable for consequential losses or indirect losses as
a result of such errors or shortcomings, unless the loss is caused by wilful
intent on the part of Norway Post. Indirect losses include, but are not
limited to, loss as a result of reduced or lost production or turnover
(operational interruption), loss as a result of the service not being usable
as intended (loss of use), loss of profits as a result of a contract with a
third party being lost or not being fulfilled, or loss as a result of
corrupted or impaired data, or other unforeseen damage due to a breach or
error in the service.

However, under no circumstances is Norway Post responsible for messages
failing to arrive on time. The services are based on the User keeping their
own login details secret. Norway Post is not responsible for the data that the
User sends or receives when using Digipost. Norway Post is not liable for any
loss, damage or otherwise in connection with the destruction of the User’s
data, interruptions, undelivered data, incorrectly delivered data, refusal,
removal or deletion of messages in accordance with clause 5 or similar. Nor
can Norway Post be held liable if third parties or users of Digipost,
deliberately or unconsciously, gain access to the User’s data, hinder or
impede the User’s use of Digipost.

Under all circumstances Norway Post’s total liability to the User is limited
to an amount equivalent to the price of the service provided, but a maximum of
NOK 30,000 for each claim/each event of liability. This does not apply if the
User’s losses are due to wilful intent on the part of Norway Post. If the
User’s direct losses are due to contract personnel that Norway Post has
engaged to perform its services to the User, Norway Post will be liable only
if these contract personnel would also be liable in accordance with the above
in the same way as Norway Post would have been.

Digipost allows the User to transfer data from invoices received in Digipost
to the User’s online bank for processing there. The User is personally
responsible for the processing of invoices in the online bank and for ensuring
that the correct account is charged at the correct time.

### **9.5** Termination

If there is material breach by Norway Post, the User can terminate the
contractual relationship that the User has with Norway Post under these Terms
with immediate effect by providing written notice to Norway Post. Point 15,
second paragraph applies for the implementation of such termination to the
extent appropriate.

## **10** BREACH OF CONTRACT BY THE USER

### **10.1** Payment default by the User

In the event of a payment default, Norway Post can claim interest on overdue
payments in accordance with the Act relating to Interest on Overdue Payments.
Norway Post can also impose statutory fees when collecting outstanding
payments from the User at any time. Any outstanding claim shall be deemed to
be overdue in the event of default of payment.

### **10.2** Termination and closure

Norway Post can immediately terminate the contractual relationship with the
User in accordance with these Terms in the event of a material breach on the
part of the User. Upon termination, the User shall be notified that access to
send and receive messages has been deactivated and that access to stored data
will cease after 3 months. Material breaches include the use of Digipost by
the User for the sending of invoices or marketing enquiries in business
activities, payment defaults, the User violating legislation, regulations or
official decisions, or otherwise abusing Digipost or information or data that
is part of Digipost. Reference is also made to Norway Post’s general payment
terms and conditions, which apply insofar as they are applicable.

Norway Post is entitled to temporarily close access to Digipost (suspension)
until surveys or clarifications have been completed regarding the User’s use
of Digipost. As far as possible, Norway Post shall notify the User in writing
by email and/or message to the User’s Digipost mailbox before temporarily
closing access to Digipost.

Point 15, second paragraph applies for the implementation of such termination
to the extent appropriate.

## **11** INDEMNIFICATION

The User shall indemnify Norway Post insofar as Norway Post receives claims
from or is subject to liability in respect of a third party, and the claim or
liability is based on the User’s infringement or participation in infringement
of other parties’ rights protected by law (including, but not limited to
copyright or adjoining rights, patents, trademarks, designs, know-how or trade
secrets), or breach of or participation in breach of any law, regulation or
official decision and/or these Terms when using Digipost. In such cases, the
User shall have the right to intervene in the claim, or shall be given the
opportunity in collaboration with Norway Post to safeguard its interests as if
the claim had been made against the User itself. If such a claim is made
against Norway Post, the User shall cover, apart from direct financial losses,
expenses for assistance in handling the claim in a responsible manner and
other expenses that are reasonably linked with third-party claims. The User
shall immediately notify Norway Post in writing if the User becomes aware that
claims will be made against Norway Post in connection with the User’s use of
Digipost.

## **12** GROUNDS FOR EXEMPTION (FORCE MAJEURE)

Norway Post is not liable for losses arising from statutory intervention or
administrative acts, actual or threat of war, rebellion, civil unrest,
vandalism, sabotage, terrorism, strikes, lockouts, boycotts and blockades,
regardless of whether it is Norway Post itself or the Norway Post organization
the conflict is aimed at, or implemented by, and regardless of the grounds for
the conflict, including also when the conflict only affects parts of Norway
Post's functions, as well as interruptions to IT operations (including the
failure of deliveries from external suppliers) due to the above.

## **13** TRANSFER OF RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS, ETC.

Norway Post can freely assign its rights and obligations under the agreement
according to these Terms between companies within the Norway Post group. The
right to remuneration may be freely transferred outside the Norway Post Group.

The User cannot transfer the right to use Digipost as this right is linked to
the party in question personally. However, the User has the opportunity to
share access to the User’s Digipost mailbox through the sharing functionality
in the solution.

The services in Digipost may not be sold, rented out or otherwise made
available to third parties, including by the User performing services for
third parties, either for payment or free of charge.

## **14** NOTICE

Unless otherwise expressly provided by these Terms, notice in connection with
the contractual relationship under these Terms must be provided in writing and
sent to the following address:

To Norway Post:

email: [kundeservice@digipost.no](mailto:kundeservice@digipost.no) eller

postal address:<br />
Posten Norge AS<br />
Att: Digipost<br />
Postboks 1500 Sentrum<br />
0001 Oslo

To the User: The User’s Digipost mailbox, the email address that the User
provided during registration or the postal address that the Customer has
registered with Norway Post.

## **15** REGULAR TERMINATION

The parties have a mutual right to terminate the agreement under these Terms
by providing two weeks’ written notice, without further justification,
provided that all outstanding issues have been settled and that the parties do
not have claims against each other.

Upon termination of the Agreement, the User’s right to send and receive
messages will be deactivated at the termination date. Messages that were sent
by the sender with postponed delivery before the termination date will still
be delivered to the User in Digipost up to two weeks after the termination
date. The User will have access to stored data for three months after the
termination date. During this period, the User will also be able to transfer
messages from the public sector to another digital mailbox with which the
public sector has an agreement, via separate functionality for this in
Digipost. The stored data is then deleted. The User is personally responsible
for making copies of all data that the User wishes to retain after the
termination date. Norway Post reserves the right to retain the data necessary
for following up the customer relationship.

If the User’s Digipost account has been inactive for more than 14 months,
Norway Post can deactivate the option to send and receive messages if the
account is still inactive 14 days after Norway Post has sent notification of
deactivation.

If the User dies, the User’s Digipost account and stored data will be deleted
12 months after Posten was notified of the death. The person(s) with legal
power to commit the User must contact Digipost to access the User’s Digipost
account before deletion. Norway Post reserves the right to retain the data
necessary for following up the customer relationship.

## **16** JURISDICTION AND VENUE

The contract is subject to and shall be interpreted according to Norwegian
law. Attempts shall be made to settle disputes between Norway Post and the
User amicably. If this is not possible, either party may bring the dispute
before the ordinary courts in accordance with the rules of the Disputes Act
regarding venue.

Last updated August 18, 2022
